
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# mirai <a href="https://shikokuchuo.net/mirai/" alt="mirai"><img src="man/figures/logo.png" alt="mirai logo" align="right" width="120"/></a>

<!-- badges: start -->

[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/mirai?color=112d4e)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=mirai)
[![R-universe
status](https://shikokuchuo.r-universe.dev/badges/mirai?color=ddcacc)](https://shikokuchuo.r-universe.dev/mirai)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/shikokuchuo/mirai/workflows/R-CMD-check/badge.svg)](https://github.com/shikokuchuo/mirai/actions)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/shikokuchuo/mirai/graph/badge.svg)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/shikokuchuo/mirai)
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/459341940.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/459341940)
<!-- badges: end -->

### みらい

<br /> ( 未来 ) <br /><br /> Minimalist Async Evaluation Framework for R
<br /><br /> Lightweight parallel code execution and distributed
computing. <br /><br /> `mirai()` returns a ‘mirai’ object immediately.
Designed for simplicity, a ‘mirai’ evaluates an R expression
asynchronously, on local or network resources, resolving automatically
upon completion. <br /><br /> State of the art networking and
concurrency via [nanonext](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7903429)
offers reliable and efficient scheduling over fast inter-process
communications or TCP/IP secured by TLS. <br /><br />

> *mirai パッケージを試してみたところ、かなり速くて驚きました*

### Installation

Install the latest release from CRAN:

``` r
install.packages("mirai")
```

Or the development version from R-universe:

``` r
install.packages("mirai", repos = "https://shikokuchuo.r-universe.dev")
```

### Quick Start

Use `mirai()` to evaluate an expression asynchronously in a separate,
clean R process.

A ‘mirai’ object is returned immediately.

``` r
library(mirai)

m <- mirai(
  {
    res <- rnorm(x) + y ^ 2
    res / rev(res)
  },
  x = 10,
  y = runif(1)
)

m
#> < mirai | $data >
```

Above, all specified `name = value` pairs are passed through to the
‘mirai’.

The ‘mirai’ yields an ‘unresolved’ logical NA whilst the async operation
is ongoing.

``` r
m$data
#> 'unresolved' logi NA
```

To check whether a mirai has resolved:

``` r
unresolved(m)
#> [1] FALSE
```

Upon completion, the ‘mirai’ resolves automatically to the evaluated
result.

``` r
m$data
#>  [1]  1.8451625 -0.2165991 -1.2117962  0.4428216  1.3387124  0.7469864
#>  [7]  2.2582459 -0.8252213 -4.6168235  0.5419577
```

Alternatively, explicitly call and wait for the result using
`call_mirai()`.

``` r
call_mirai(m)$data
#>  [1]  1.8451625 -0.2165991 -1.2117962  0.4428216  1.3387124  0.7469864
#>  [7]  2.2582459 -0.8252213 -4.6168235  0.5419577
```

### Daemons

Daemons are persistent background processes created to receive ‘mirai’
requests.

They may be deployed for:

[Local](https://shikokuchuo.net/mirai/articles/mirai.html#daemons-local-persistent-processes)
parallel processing; or

[Remote](https://shikokuchuo.net/mirai/articles/mirai.html#distributed-computing-remote-daemons)
network distributed computing.

[Launchers](https://shikokuchuo.net/mirai/articles/mirai.html#distributed-computing-launching-daemons)
allow daemons to be started both on the local machine and across the
network via SSH etc.

[Secure TLS
connections](https://shikokuchuo.net/mirai/articles/mirai.html#distributed-computing-tls-secure-connections)
can be automatically-configured on-the-fly for remote daemon
connections.

Refer to the [{mirai}
vignette](https://shikokuchuo.net/mirai/articles/mirai.html) for full
package functionality. This may be accessed within R by:

``` r
vignette("mirai", package = "mirai")
```

### Integrations

The following core integrations are documented, with usage examples in
the linked vignettes:

[`parallel`](https://shikokuchuo.net/mirai/articles/parallel.html) -
provides an alternative communications backend for R, implementing a
low-level feature request by R-Core at R Project Sprint 2023.

[`promises`](https://shikokuchuo.net/mirai/articles/promises.html) -
‘mirai’ may be used interchangeably with ‘promises’ by using the promise
pipe `%...>%` or the `as.promise()` method.

[`plumber`](https://shikokuchuo.net/mirai/articles/plumber.html) -
serves as an asynchronous / distributed backend, scaling applications
via the use of promises.

[`shiny`](https://shikokuchuo.net/mirai/articles/shiny.html) - serves as
an asynchronous / distributed backend, plugging directly into the
reactive framework or accepted anywhere that takes a ‘promise’.

[`torch`](https://shikokuchuo.net/mirai/articles/torch.html) - the
custom serialization interface allows tensors and complex objects such
as models and optimizers to be used seamlessly across parallel
processes.

### Powering Crew and Targets High Performance Computing

[`targets`](https://docs.ropensci.org/targets/), a Make-like pipeline
tool for statistics and data science, has integrated and adopted `crew`
as its default high-performance computing backend.

[`crew`](https://wlandau.github.io/crew/) is a distributed
worker-launcher extending `mirai` to different distributed computing
platforms, from traditional clusters to cloud services.

[`crew.cluster`](https://wlandau.github.io/crew.cluster/) enables
mirai-based workflows on traditional high-performance computing clusters
using LFS, PBS/TORQUE, SGE and SLURM.

[`crew.aws.batch`](https://wlandau.github.io/crew.aws.batch/) extends
`mirai` to cloud computing using AWS Batch.

### Thanks

We would like to thank in particular:

[Will Landau](https://github.com/wlandau/), for being instrumental in
shaping development of the package, from initiating the original request
for persistent daemons, through to orchestrating robustness testing for
the high performance computing requirements of `crew` and `targets`.

[Joe Cheng](https://github.com/jcheng5/), for optimising the `promises`
method to make `mirai` work seamlessly within Shiny, and guidance for
implementing error stack traces.

[Luke Tierney](https://github.com/ltierney/), R Core, for discussion on
R’s implementation of L’Ecuyer-CMRG streams, used to ensure statistical
independence in parallel processing, and collaboration in ‘providing an
alternative communications backend for R’.

[Henrik Bengtsson](https://github.com/HenrikBengtsson/), for valuable
insights leading to the interface accepting broader usage patterns.

[Daniel Falbel](https://github.com/dfalbel/), for discussion around an
efficient solution to serialization and transmission of `torch` tensors.

### Links

◈ mirai R package: <https://shikokuchuo.net/mirai/>

mirai is listed in CRAN Task View: <br /> - High Performance Computing:
<https://cran.r-project.org/view=HighPerformanceComputing>

◈ nanonext R package: <https://shikokuchuo.net/nanonext/>

NNG website: <https://nng.nanomsg.org/><br />

–

Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of
Conduct](https://shikokuchuo.net/mirai/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.html). By
participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.
